These days softwares
are very compatible.
You don't have to worry
about Mac or Windows too much.
But still, just for the sake of
having it, I will walk you through
that how you can install and run
Python programs on Windows as well.
Again there are two ways
of writing Python programs.
One in the shell itself,
another one is into file so that
we can save them forever.
And obviously the second
method is really good.
So let me just take you onto
a Windows screen and walk you
through that how you can
actually have a Python program
being installed as well as run
your very first fil file.
And it's exactly same as if you
have watched it on the Mac or
probably if you have skipped
it, you should really Var it.
It's a great way and probably
you'll learn a thing or two.
Anyways, if you don't want
to do that, that's totally okay.
Now I am on a Windows
machine and together we're
going to go through.
So just go ahead and fire up
any browser of your choice and go
ahead and have it for me.
I just use the default version
and I will just go ahead and use
python.org to download the Python.
Now apart from this I will
also use one more website
to download the VS code.
This is my choice of editor
and I prefer to use it instead
of others just for the sake of.
It's good, it's really nice
and I enjoy writing code in VS
code so that's why I use it.
Just download it for Windows.
Simple installation,
nothing big deal.
No big deal there.
Now once you go onto the python.org
what we can do is we can click on
download and just download the
version whichever version you want
to have with and usually it detects
the system whichever you are on and
it gives you appropriate version
for it.
But in case not you can always click
on the download and look
for the version you are looking for.
In my case it is Windows.
So all the things you can see
specific version of Windows I
recommend to choose the latest one.
But you can click on Windows or
Linux or Mac and can choose that.
Hey, I want this specific version
of the Windows so you can
see there's lots of installers
and things available for you.
Usually the default installer
which is next next I agree
one is usually the best one.
You can just go ahead
and install this one.
I have got one here on my desktop.
It doesn't look like it's the file
but hey this is my virtual machine
so just bear with me.
Now once you click on this it
says, hey, install the Python
where you want to install it.
The first thing I would love to add
a path so that I don't have to
manually go ahead and add the path.
I can just use it and, and use
the admin privileges when
installing the Python.
So you can just go ahead and use
it wherever you like so it
doesn't really bother much.
So I just happen to click on
the admin privileges when installing
so that it can be simply used.
Click on install now and it just
includes and install everything
and allow this app to make changes.
Yes, please go ahead
and install this.
And once you go ahead
and install this, this should
take fairly less time.
And apart from this I also as I
mentioned in my Mac video as well,
I actually don't use the default
terminal or the command prompt
from either the Mac or Windows.
I happen to use one another software
which I really love.
Feel free to use it, Feel free
to ignore it, feel free
to use the original terminal,
but I happen to just use it.
I just love it.
It's available on Mac,
Windows and Linux, so I
just happen to use it.
So just thought to mention it
now apart from this, once it's
installed, which is taking a little
time and let's wait for it
and let's wait for it to finish.
All right, since it's a Windows
you will see these kinds
of things that sometimes the path
is too long and all of that.
So we'll just disable the length
and yes, just allow it so that
sometimes the path where
the Python install is too long.
So Windows has its own default
configuration so we can just close
it now once we have it, I can just
go ahead and open up any terminal.
In this case I will use Warp
and I'll open up a new shell
of Warp and so I'll just open this
up and I'll start a fresh one.
So this is a new shell that I've
installed and here I can just
go ahead and type Python and then
I can say version and hopefully
this will give me that.
Hey, Python is installed
on your system.
I'll just zoom this a little bit.
Oops to zoom.
Shouldn't have done that,
but anyways, let me fix this.
Anyways let's go up here.
So now that we can see that we
have Python 3.13.2, any version
that you have installed and as
long as this command is giving
you an output that means we are
all okay, we can just get
started working with that now on
your desktop.
Just go ahead and create A new
folder, wherever you like.
So I'll just go ahead
and say new, folder.
I'm going to call this
one as Test Win.
Because anyways, I'm going
to go ahead and delete this
after this recording
and I'll just close this one.
I'll fire up my VS code, in the.
So once I have this, I'll just
go ahead and say that, hey, let's
go ahead and minimize this.
And now just go ahead and drag
and drop this Test Win.
And as soon as you drag and drop
this, yes, I do trust the author,
because I am the author.
And just click on this new folder.
We're going to call
this one as 01basics.
And inside this we're going
to create our new first file,
which is going to call this
one as Python Test document.
The extension PY is really important.
Once you have this, this
might prompt that.
Hey, do you want to install
some Python extension?
Yes, I would love to install
it because it will help me
to get suggestions so that
I can just write faster.
Just like Python has.
Every language has these
suggestions so that you can write
your language faster.
It's taking a little bit while to
install this and in case you're
wondering, I do have a theme
installed on my VS code, which is
known as chai theme and which
makes the code look a little bit
better.
So that's why I use it.
Once you have this
installed, that's it.
It's an official extension
by Microsoft.
So I can just go ahead and close
this, close this, close this,
come back to your code, click
on this icon so that you can
see all of the code files.
And now I'm going to go ahead
and just again, this, not this.
I just wanted to open the font
size editor so that I can
have some bigger font
and hopefully that will help you
to see the code much easier.
On my Mac it's much easier.
I can just go ahead and say import
sys, just like we have been writing
it on the very first installation.
This is just importing some system
libraries, with the Python and now
you can just ask it that, hey, just
go ahead and print sys and as soon
as I put up a dot you can see we
have so much things to learn about
it.
And as of now I just want
to have the version that is it.
It's going to give me some output.
But this is really what I want now.
I want to open up the terminal
and the easiest shortcut
for that is command and tilde.
The tilde is the key just
below your escape key.
And here I can just go ahead
and say, hey, Python, I just want
to run this file,
which is inside the 01, the basics
and inside this Python test.
As soon as I run this file, it
says, hey, this is the expected
output, this is what we have,
and as long as you are able to
run this, that means, hey, it's
all good.
Now we have all the things
up and ready and, and we can see
everything is working fine.
Absolutely.
On Windows, this is exactly
the same thing that we had
done on the Mac as well.
And I highly recommend you to Var
that video as well, so that you can
see how intercompatible this is.
You don't have to worry
about anything, it just
works out of the box.
The same instruction are on Mac,
the same instruction are on Windows.
The only difference is
in the path, that is it.
So in the Windows it is,
forward slashes, in the Mac it's
the backslashes that is it.
Apart from that, no
difference at all.
So this is good.
We have done the installation
as well as have run the first,
decent, Python code.
It's not a hello world, but it's
definitely a good one and we
have done it all awesomely.
So that is it.
We are now compatible with
the installation as well as
running the first command.
We have a good foundation
of knowing the Python as well.
And from the next video onwards
we can start writing some good
amount of Python code, have some
ground basics and the knowledge
behind the scene of Python.
It's all fun.
Let's go ahead and get started
with Python.